---
layout: post
title: A Very Koan Holiday
---

<p>Over the quiet time I had during the Christmas/New Year period, I decided to do something productive and explore Scala and Clojure some more. To do this I chose to work through the Koans for each language. This is summary of my thoughts and experiences.</p>

<p>The <a href="http://clojurekoans.com/">clojure koans</a> spanned 20 files and area ranging from simple comparisons and data structures through to higher order functions and the use of macros. It only took me an afternoon to work through all the koans. Overall I was quite impressed, I only really had trouble with the macros as that is a part of Clojure I have not yet delt with in any detail. Working through the koans again highlighted how mimalistic Clojure feels, there is very little syntax that you need to keep in your head. Though you do seem to need to keep a large number of functions in your head, may be hard to memorise the content of clojure.core.&nbsp;</p>

<p>&nbsp;The <a href="http://www.scalakoans.org/" target="_self">Scala Koans</a> took a lot longer to get through as there were a lot more files, a bit more than double the number that the Clojure Koans. Each file also tended to have more to it than were in the Clojure Koans. Though sometimes this felt like too much repetition of very basic operations. &nbsp;</p>
<p>I ran into some minor issues with the Scala Koans, a few of the place holders for solutions were wrong. I endedup up <a href="https://bitbucket.org/eldritchideen/scalakoansexercises" target="_self">cloning the repo</a> and submitting a pull request for a few fixes. This was the first time I had used Mercurial and BitBucket, overall it was fairly painless using the Atlassian SourceTree GUI. Though BitBucket does seem to be slower than Github.&nbsp;</p>
<p>So what did I learn out of these two exercises. It did seem to reaffirm my previous impression that Scala is a much larger language than Clojure. It has more magic and syntax, however this isn't necessarily a bad thing. It feels to be a lot like when I used to develop in C++ many many years ago. Back then basically every C++ shop maintained their own guidelines of what parts of C++ you could touch and what needed to be left alone. It feels that using Scala in a large organisation may require something along those lines, to ensure everyone understands the code base.</p>
<p>This exercise has only reaffrimed my effort to continue to explore and use both of these great languages more in the future.</p>
<p>Next, I have to finish reading the last half of <a href="http://horstmann.com/scala/" target="_self">Scala for the Impatient</a>, and then start on my copy of the Play for Scala book.&nbsp;</p>
